# Kubefix report

## Identified architectural defects in Kubernetes manifests and the proposed solutions for detecting and correcting these defects

### 1. Unnormalized labels

The Kubernetes community recommends certain labels to identify certain applicative structures. While developpers aren't required to strictly follow this convention, it invites a certain coherence ad clarity. So the non-following of these recommendations can be idetified as a defect in a Kubernetes manifest. 

#### Proposed solution : Algorithm for normalising labels

This algorithm aims to find and replace unrecommended labels by their recommended alternetives, all while maintaining coherency throughout the manifest. (If the recommended label exists with another value -> try to replace with the recommended label with a lower hierarchy etc)

### 2. Related resources not having the same group of labels

KubeDiagrams generates diagrams for Kubernetes manifest such that each resource is represented as nodes, in layers of labels represented as colored boxes. These labels have a certain hierarchy that the generated diagram has a coherent layering. And related resources are connected by different types of edges depending on their relationship types. 

By visually studying various examples of diagrams generated by KubeDiagrams, one can see that in a lot of cases, the related nodes are not in the same layer of boxes, or labels. One can reason that related resouces must be grouped together, so we can identify this as an architectural defect. 

#### Proposed solution : Algorithm for intersection of labels

This algorithms aims to relable each resource with the intersection of labels of its' parent resources' labels. The parent resource is defined by a certain type of relationship this resource has with it. 

### 3. Resources without labels

By visually studying various examples of diagrams generated by KubeDiagrams, one can see that a lot of the times, developperes simply forget to label their resources. As a result the diagram generated by Kubediagram shows only a few labeled resources and a lof of unlabeled ones. This can be indentified as another architectural defect. 

#### Proposed solution : Algorithm for labeling resources using other resources' existing labels

If there exists some labeled resources in the manifest, we use those labels for the unlabeled resources. This only applies to cases where the label is singular of it's type and we start with the label hierarchy to gradually add labels. 

#### Proposed solution : Algorithm for generating labels from names of resources

This algorithm aims to generate labels for resources without any labels. As there's a certain convention of naming that developers follow to name resources, it is possible to extract common part of the names and use that as a label. 

